ROWSPAN > 1 to row distribution

The algorithm has not been standardized. This is my understanding of how it works.
rowspan>1 TDs are sorted:
If TD span the same rows, taller TD is distributed first.
If one TD is fully enclosed by another, inner TD is distributed first.
Otherwise, higher TD is distributed first.
Each rowspan>1 TD's height is distributed as following
rowspan > 1 TDs have height TDh, span N rows. N rows have total height of Rh. TDh - Rh height, Dh, must be distributed as follows.
If percentage resolution size is available (this happens when redistributiong table/section height), percentage rows grow to their percentage size, proportional to (percentage size - current size). Dh shrinks by distributed height. Justification: explicit percentage rows should grow to their percentage.
Rows that originate rowspan>1 cells get all the Dh height, distributed evenly. Justification: rowspan>1 rows are likely to need to grow later. If there are multiple rowspan>1 cells, there can be multiple originating rows.
Unconstrained non-empty rows grow, proportional to their existing height.
If all rows are empty, last row gets all the height. Justification: ???
Contstrained rows grow in proportion to current height.
It is unclear what the existing ChromeLegacy/FF algorithms do for distribution over rowspan>1 and empty cells. FF special cases "there is no cell originating in the row with owspan=1 and there are at least 2 cells spanning the row. Chrome Legacy also tries to do something similar, but they disagree on what. TablesNG will try to ship without special cases.
Safari fails most of these tests
Color scheme
odd rows are yellow
even rows are orange
inner divs have a green gradient
row
row
row
row
Unconstrained rows

Rows whose height is not fixed or percent are unconstrained.
Unconstrained rows Unconstrained rows are redistributed proportionally. Rows are constrained if their height is fixed, or percent.
0,0	
0,1
Unconstrained rows with zero height do not grow.
0,0	
0,2
rowspan>1 is zero height, spanned rows have height.
1,0	
2,0	
Unconstrained rows are redistributed proportionally to heights
0,0
0,1
Fixed rows

Constrained fixed rows do not grow if there are unconstrained ones
Edge grows constrained rows too
0,0 30px	
0,1
 Constrained fixed rows grow proportionally to their size if there are no unconstrained rows
20	
20
40
Percent rows

Constrained percent rows grow like unconstrained ones when percent resolution size is undefined.
FF always treats percent rows as constrained. Chrome legacy does resolve percentage against final height of the table. I do not think that can work. Edge follows NG.
0,0 30%	
0,1
100px
Percent rows with zero height do not grow.
Legacy Chrome has a strange gap between rows
0,0	
2,0
Order of rowspan distribution

If cells span the same rows, bigger cell is distributed first Not sure how to test this, I think it is just an optimization, there is no observable effect.
FF and Legacy Chrome unexpectedly distribute height evenly between rows in the first test case. Edge and TablesNG do not.
bottom	bottom
bottom	bottom
bottom	bottom
If one cell is fully enclosed by another, inner cell wins.
Not in Edge
First row wins. rowspan-4 distributes 50 to last empty row, row3. rowspan-3 distributes 100px to only nonempty row, row3.
Edge disagrees here.
Rowspan distribution over empty rows.

Rowspans that span non-existent rows Span is truncated so only existing rows are spanned.
0,0	
rowspan 5
1,0
body 2
Rowspan spans only empty rows Last spanned row gets all the height.
Edge distributes height to all empty rows, not just last.
first row
last row
TD is not considered empty if it has padding, but no content
first row
last row
row with an empty tall cell is not considered empty.
rowspan
Empty rows with border-spacing big enough for rowspan cell rows are 0 height, cell spans the entire table.
row with a non-empty rowspan>0 cell is empty. Distributes to all rows except start row?
rowspan
rowspan
rowspan
yo
Distribution over rowspan > 1 rows Distribution over rowspan > 1 rows
Distribution of table height over rowspan > 1 rows If there are any unconstrained non-empty rows, they get it. When all rows are empty, last row takes it
Distribution of rowspan over percentage rows Percentage rows are considered empty if they cannot resolve

PASS table 1
PASS table 2
PASS table 3
PASS table 4
PASS table 5
PASS table 6
PASS table 7
PASS table 8
PASS table 9
PASS table 10
PASS table 11
PASS table 12
PASS table 13
PASS table 14
PASS table 15
PASS table 16
PASS table 17
PASS table 18
PASS table 19
PASS table 20
PASS table 21
PASS table 22
PASS table 23
PASS table 24

